I'm Russell Payne head men's soccer
coach at West Point and today we're
going to demonstrate a goal kick okay
our our first order of business when we
have a goal kicking the ball goes out of
bounds is we view goal kicks as
opportunities to maintain possession not
opportunity to put the ball back in for
a 50/50 situation so what you want to do
when you first get a goal kick situation
as a goal keeper is quickly get the ball
back in bounds into your hands and as
you look to set it up look to see where
your players are potentially open and
available do I have any players on my
team available that I can quickly find
to click to complete a possession pass
to their feet so in this situation I
pick the ball up
I've looked up I've seen that I have a
defender or midfielder or maybe even a
forward in a great position where I can
play him a ball to his feet or into him
where he has enough time to help us
maintain possession and if that's the
case whether I'm to the right left or
middle of the goal box here I'm going to
put the ball down quickly and I'm going
to play that player two feet so that he
can receive it and potentially turn from
my direction playing it back or play to
wonder if his teammates let's say that
you looked up to see if you have a quick
option to play the ball the goal kick
off the ground to one of your players
feet and it just so happens that the
team that's now defending you has
decided to step their pressure up higher
up the field in other words not allow
you to play a short goal kick to your
players feet
I'm not comfortable or my players aren't
comfortable or my coaches told me not to
play any of my defenders two feet
midfielders or forward four feet here
I'm going to find the bladder point the
bladder hole of the ball every ball is
constructed obviously with the ability
to take air in or put air take care out
put area under take air out of the ball
and at that point the bladder is
constructed almost to a point and that's
probably the least true spot on the ball
in terms of your contact point so what
I'd like to do is I'd have I'd like to
have the bladder point pointed away from
my foot so that when I do meet the ball
I know that I'm hitting a true area of
the ball where the ball will go
hopefully in the direction where I
wanted to go the next thing is to make
sure you set the ball up properly on the
grass in front of you
in this case I've never been a big
proponent of stats some are of teeing a
ball up because I believe it can
potentially affect your natural swing on
the ball you just want to make sure the
ball is resting properly not inside of a
hole but on top of the grass in front of
you if you intend to put your goal kick
up to the right or left flank of the
field
you're better off starting more to the
left or the right flank of the goal area
here if you intend to enter your goal
kick to the opposite side then obviously
you like to link line up more towards
the middle in this situation I'd like to
put my goal kick
off to the right side of the field so
I'm lining up to the right portion of
the goal box so I've sat the ball down
on the grass I've got the bladder point
pointed out in the direction where I'd
like to hit the ball I've come up I've
surveyed my team knows where I'm going
to put the ball and I take my proper
distance from the ball to make contact
and every goalkeeper has their own
distance which is proper for them some
are good on a short run up some are good
on a longer run-up I believe in going
about six yards back which the distance
from the in line to the six yards you're
six yard box to meet the ball in that
situation next I'm going to signal my
team but I'm getting ready to put the
ball back in play by putting my hand up
that way my team is prepared and at that
point in time my focus then goes from
alerting my team and picking my target
to keep my eye on the ball as I look to
go meeting I look to step into it I keep
my head down and I swing through and my
head comes up at the point of which
after I've made contact and in my body
hips and everything should be square in
the direction of where I want the ball
to go
hopefully I demonstrated for you the
proper way to take a goal kick thank you
you